#  CSS usage

All styling is done using CSS which can be modified although that may mean that the SVG
looks strange. As an example I modified the stroke width of a plot but inadvertently
changed the stroke width of the related text.

Each plot has a class, either set using the [`cssClasses`](json.md#cssClasses) tag or assigned as `plot01`, `plot02` etc.. That class is used by both a path and a text element,
the path is the plot itself and the text is the name in the legends panel. Those classes
can be changed using [`cssExtras`](json.md#cssExtras) or
[`cssInclude`](json.md#cssInclude) tags and either of them can include an `@include`.
Included css should use the [SVG ID](#svgid) to isolate the style data to a specific SVG.<br/>
**N.B.** the paths and texts are styled separately which means that they need to be
updated separately other wise the precedence rules of CSS will take the longer selector,
e.g.<br/>
`.plot02 { stroke: black }` will not change anything, it needs to be
`path.plot02, text.plot02 { stroke: black }`.<br/>
Also the `fill` for paths is none while for texts it is the same as `stroke` so just
changing the `stroke` for both may give some surprising results.

### The Groups
There is only one group:
- **g.plotarea** is used to set the opacity for the plot lines
- **g.plotarea path:hover** is used to highlight the plot that the cursor is over. This doesn't work when SVG's are used a images.

### The Paths

- **path** `{ stroke-width: 2.0; fill: none; stroke-linecap: round }`<br/>
sets the default styling for all paths. The `stroke-width` is the value set using the
[`strokeWidth`](json.md#strokeWidth) tag.
- **`path.axes`** styles the abscissa and ordinate lines.
- **`path.plot01`** styles the plot line for plot path for row or column 1 unless it has
been overridden by [`cssClasses`](json.md#cssClasses). Similarly for `plot02` etc.
- **`path.xtick`** styles the vertical grid lines
- **`path.ytick`** styles the horizontal grid lines

### The Rectangles
There is only one rectangle and it for the legends panel.
- **`rect.legends`** the legends panel.

### The SVG
- **`svg`** is used to set the background colour.

#### <a id="svgid">The SVG ID</a>
Every `<svg>` has an id that is either defined using the [cssID](json.md#cssID) tag or randomly generated. All the selectors
generated by `csv2svg` include that id so that their style doesn't affect other SVG's that may be included in the same document.
There is no requirement on others to do the same but it can come as a bit of a shock.

### The Texts

- **`text`** The text element is used to style the `font-family`, the `font-weight` and,
the `font-style`.
- **`text.legends`** styles the text in the legends panel.
- **`text.plot01`** styles the text for the plot in the legends panel. These texts have
both their own class and the `legends`
- **`text.subtitle`** styles the sub-title text.
- **`text.title`** styles the title text.
- **`text.xlabel`** styles the text for the values on the abscissa
- **`text.xtitle`** styles the text used to describe the abscissa values.
- **`text.ylabel`** styles the text for the values on the ordinate
- **`text.ytitle`** styles the text used to describe the ordinate values.
